receiver/promtailreceiver/README.md, before:

# Promtail Receiver

| Status                   |           |
| ------------------------ |-----------|
| Stability                | [alpha]   |
| Supported pipeline types | logs      |
| Distributions            | [contrib] |

This receiver runs [promtail client](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/) to scrape logs

## Unsupported features
The Promtail receiver is meant to minimally be a drop-in replacement for Promtail Client. However,
there are advanced features of Promtail that we don't support and thus explicitly will return
an error for if the receiver's configuration YAML/code contains any of the following

- [x] [server](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#server)
- [x] [clients](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#clients)
- [x] [limits_config](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#limits_config)
- [x] [options_config](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#options_config)


## Getting Started

This receiver is a drop-in replacement for getting Promtail to scrape your
services. It supports [the full set of Promtail configuration in `scrape_configs`][sc].
Just like you would write in a YAML configuration
file before starting Promtail, such as with:

**Note**: Since the collector configuration supports env variable substitution
`$` characters in your prometheus configuration are interpreted as environment
variables.  If you want to use $ characters in your promtail configuration,
you must escape them using `$$`.

```shell
promtail --config.file=prom.yaml
```

You can copy and paste that same configuration under:

```yaml
receivers:
  promtail:
    config:
```

For example:

```yaml
receivers:
    promtail:
      config:
        positions:
          filename: /tmp/positions.yaml
        scrape_configs:
          - job_name: varlogs
            static_configs:
              - labels:
                job: varlogs
                __path__: /var/log/*.log
          - job_name: loki_push
            server:
              http_listen_port: 3101
              grpc_listen_port: 3600
            labels:
              pushserver: push1
              use_incoming_timestamp: true
        target_config:
          sync_period: 5s
```


[sc]: https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#scrape_configs

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol

Commit message:

Promtail: update go.mod, README

receiver/promtailreceiver/README.md, after:

# Promtail Receiver

| Status                   |           |
| ------------------------ |-----------|
| Stability                | [alpha]   |
| Supported pipeline types | logs      |
| Distributions            | [contrib] |

This receiver runs [promtail client](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/) to scrape logs

## Unsupported features
The Promtail receiver is meant to minimally be a drop-in replacement for Promtail Client. However,
there are advanced features of Promtail that we don't support and thus explicitly will return
an error for if the receiver's configuration YAML/code contains any of the following

- [x] [server](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#server)
- [x] [clients](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#clients)
- [x] [limits_config](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#limits_config)
- [x] [options_config](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#options_config)


## Getting Started

This receiver is a drop-in replacement for getting Promtail to scrape your
services. It supports [the full set of Promtail configuration in `scrape_configs`][sc].
Just like you would write in a YAML configuration
file before starting Promtail, such as with:

**Note**: Since the collector configuration supports env variable substitution
`$` characters in your prometheus configuration are interpreted as environment
variables.  If you want to use $ characters in your promtail configuration,
you must escape them using `$$`.

```shell
promtail --config.file=prom.yaml
```

You can copy and paste that same configuration under:

```yaml
receivers:
  promtail:
    config:
```

For example:

```yaml
receivers:
    promtail:
      config:
        positions:
          filename: /tmp/positions.yaml
        scrape_configs:
          - job_name: varlogs
            static_configs:
              - labels:
                job: varlogs
                __path__: /var/log/*.log
          - job_name: loki_push
            server:
              http_listen_port: 3101
              grpc_listen_port: 3600
            labels:
              pushserver: push1
              use_incoming_timestamp: true
        target_config:
          sync_period: 5s
```

## Promtail Journal support

Promtail receiver can receive logs from journal on Linux and CentOS. By default, Journal support is disabled since it requires CGO enabled.
To turn on Journal support you should enable CGO, pass build flag tag `protail_journal_enabled` and install systemd headers.

With Journal support on Ubuntu, run with the following commands:
```shell
sudo yum install -y systemd-devel
CGO_ENABLED=1 go build ./cmd/otelcontribcol --tags=promtail_journal_enabled
```

With Journal support on CentOS, run with the following commands:
```shell
sudo apt install -y libsystemd-dev
CGO_ENABLED=1 go build ./cmd/otelcontribcol --tags=promtail_journal_enabled
```

[sc]: https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/configuration/#scrape_configs

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
